Cameras and ghosts of the Jenkins lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to learn how you can trigger downstream Jenkins jobs.
So till now, we are dealing with just one job.
Let's say a job, eh?
But in real world scenario, the actual cursed pipeline is made up of multiple jobs.
So you want to trigger, let's say, job B from this job, eh?
And there are two ways you can invoke it.
You can just invoke it without passing any value in between.
Or as it is, most most common is when you trigger the second job.
From the first job, you want to pass some parameters.
So one of the real world examples of this could be fast job, can build a container image and push and
save that container image into some container repository such as Docker hub.
And then you pass the necessary information to another downstream job.
And that job goes and updates the Kubernetes manifest.
And then down the line that changed.
Container image gets deployed using Gitops.
So this is a very, very popular and very relevant use case right now.
So we are actually going to see this in action in our Jenkins Kubernetes GitHub section.
But for now, let's jump into the console and build a job and see how you can trigger another job from
it.
So I'm going to briefly go over the freestyle job, but I'm actually actually going to show that demo
with the pipeline job.
So if you are in the freestyle job, go back to configure and then scroll down and in the post build
actions you will see build another job so you could see build other projects.
And if you select this, then you can give the name of another Jenkins job here.
And after this build step is completed, then this post build action will get triggered.
But like we know, pipeline jobs offer significant advantages.
So we are actually going to see the demo using pipeline job.
So let's switch to the pipeline job that we created.
All right.
So this is the sample pipeline job.
And in the pipeline script, we are copying over this git repository and we are displaying the read
me.
Let's say you want to trigger another job again, even though it is convenient to just select from the
post, build action in the sample freestyle job, trigger another job.
But in real world everything is done through infrastructure as code.
Similarly, for the pipeline jobs, it's very important to have these as a pipeline script, so let's
see that in action.
So I'm just going to copy this and then test this.
So I'm creating another stage and here I'm going to say trigger downstream job.
So actually, before we put the steps, let's create another job which will act as the downstream job.
So I would click the dashboard open link in new window, click a new item.
I'm just going to name this downstream job.
Real straightforward.
Click pipeline.
Click.
Okay.
I went to calm down and I'm just going to select Hello World for now.
So this job will just echo.
Hello World.
Click Save.
And then go back to our job of the previous job, the upstream job.
So here I'm going to delete this and I'm going to create the pipeline syntax.
So select this and then from here click build a job project to build is downstream job.
So you basically just give the actual name of the Jenkins job and this quite period is after you trigger
it.
Your Jenkins job can wait a certain amount of time to get triggered.
And let's say you want to put something just for fun and this is in seconds and then join our pipeline
script.
So you see this thing just adds that quite period here.
But anyway, I'm going to remove this quite period because I'm quite impatient.
So I'm just going to copy this.
Go back here.
Pestered her.
All right, click save.
All right.
So at this point, I'm going to submit this sample pipeline job.
So on the left, I have the sample pipeline job, which is triggering the downstream job on the right.
So let's click build now.
All right.
It is triggering on the right.
You could see the question number two got triggered and it is pending.
Finished waiting.
All right.
So our job on the left trigger the job on the right.
And now let's go one step further and pass parameters from the sample pipeline job to the downstream
job.